[R2] document the R2 multipart worker API (#6878)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/r2/data-access/workers-api/workers-multipart-usage.md

This guide also contains an example Python application that uploads files to this worker.

This guide assumes you have set up the [R2 binding](/workers/platform/bindings/) for your Worker. Refer to [Use R2 from Workers](/r2/data-access/workers-api/workers-api-usage) for instructions on setting up an R2 binding.

## An example Worker using the multipart API

The following example Worker exposes an HTTP API which enables applications to use the multipart API through the Worker.

In this example, each request is routed based on the HTTP method and the action request parameter.
As your Worker becomes more complicated, consider utilizing a serverless web framework such as [Hono](https://honojs.dev/) to handle the routing for you.

The following example Worker includes any new information about the state of the multipart upload in the response to each request. For the request which creates the multipart upload, the `uploadId` is returned. For requests uploading a part, the part number and etag are returned. In turn, the client keeps track of this state, and includes the uploadId in subsequent requests, and the etag and part number of each part when completing a multipart upload.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Add the following code to your project's `index.js` file and replace `MY_BUCKET` with your bucket's name:

```

        headers.set("etag", object.httpEtag);
        return new Response(object.body, { headers });
      case "DELETE":
        switch (action) {
          case "mpu-abort": {
            const uploadId = url.searchParams.get("uploadId");
            if (uploadId === null) {
              return new Response("Missing uploadId", { status: 400 });
            }
            const multipartUpload = env.MY_BUCKET.resumeMultipartUpload(
              key,
              uploadId
            );

            try {
              multipartUpload.abort();
            } catch (error: any) {
              return new Response(error.message, { status: 400 });
            }
            return new Response(null, { status: 204 });
          }
          case "delete": {
            await env.MY_BUCKET.delete(key);
            return new Response(null, { status: 204 });
          }
          default:
            return new Response(`Unknown action ${action} for DELETE`, {
              status: 400,
            });
        }
      default:
        return new Response("Method Not Allowed", {
          status: 405,
          headers: { Allow: "PUT, POST, GET, DELETE" },
        });
    }
  },
};
```

> After publishing this worker with `wrangler publish`, you can use this worker to perform multipart uploads in a variety of ways.
> You can send requests from your existing application to this worker to perform uploads, or you can use a script to upload files through this worker.
> The next section shows an example of a Python script which uploads a chosen file on your machine to this worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you have updated your Worker with the above code, run `wrangler publish` . 

You can now use this Worker to perform multipart uploads. You can either send requests from your existing application to this Worker to perform uploads or use a script to upload files through this Worker.

The next section is optional and shows an example of a Python script which uploads a chosen file on your machine to your Worker.
```

> ## Perform a multipart upload using the Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Perform a multipart upload with your Worker (optional)
```

> This example application uploads a local file to the Worker in multiple parts.
> It uses Python's built-in `ThreadPoolExecutor` to parallelize the uploading of parts to the Worker, which increases upload speeds.
> HTTP requests to the Worker are made with the [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/) library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example application uploads a local file to the Worker in multiple parts. It uses Python's built-in `ThreadPoolExecutor` to parallelize the uploading of parts to the Worker, which increases upload speeds. HTTP requests to the Worker are made with the [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/) library.
```

> Utilizing the multipart API in this way also allows you to use the Worker to upload files larger than the [Workers request body size limit](/workers/platform/limits#request-limits).
> The uploading of individual parts is still subject to this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Utilizing the multipart API in this way also allows you to use your Worker to upload files larger than the [Workers request body size limit](/workers/platform/limits#request-limits). The uploading of individual parts is still subject to this limit.
```

> Pass the file you want to upload as an argument when running this script: `python3 mpuscript.py myfile`.
> That will upload the file `myfile` from your machine to your bucket through the Worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Save the following code on a file named `myfile` on your local machine. Pass the file as an argument when running this script: `python3 mpuscript.py myfile`. This will upload the file `myfile` from your machine to your bucket through the Worker.
```

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
---
filename: myfile
---
```

---
title: Use the R2 multipart API from Workers
pcx_content_type: how-to
weight: 1
meta:
  title: Use the R2 multipart API from Workers
---

> # Use the R2 multipart API from workers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use the R2 multipart API from Workers
```

> # Use the R2 multipart API from workers
> 
> {{<Aside type="note">}}
> 
> This guide assumes you've already set up the R2 binding for your worker. See [Use R2 from Workers](/r2/data-access/workers-api/workers-api-usage) for instructions on how to do so.
> 
> {{</Aside>}}
> 
> In this guide we'll show how to create a worker which allows your applications to perform multipart uploads through this worker.
> This could serve as a basis for your use case where you could add extra validation and authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use the R2 multipart API from Workers

By following this guide, you will create a Worker through which your applications can perform multipart uploads and add extra validation and authentication for your application.

This guide assumes you have set up the [R2 binding](/workers/platform/bindings/) for your Worker. Refer to [Use R2 from Workers](/r2/data-access/workers-api/workers-api-usage) for instructions on setting up an R2 binding.
```

Reviewer: Where are we adding "extra validation and authentication"? To the application? This sentence needs a bit more technical detail

Author: Well, I don't really intend to go into how to add extra validation and authentication in this guide. I'll add that the validation ought to be added in the worker.

> ## An example worker using the multipart API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## An example Worker using the multipart API
```

> This worker exposes a HTTP API which enables applications to use the multipart API through the worker.
> 
> In this example, each request is routed based on the HTTP method, and the action request parameter.
> As your worker becomes more complicated, you might consider utilizing a serverless web framework
> such as hono to handle the routing for you.
> 
> The worker includes any new information about the state of the multipart upload in the response to each request.
> For the request which creates the multipart upload, the uploadId is returned. For requests uploading a part, the part number and etag are returned.
> In turn, the client keeps track of this state, and includes the uploadId in subsequent requests, and the etag and part number of each part when completing a multipart upload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example Worker exposes an HTTP API which enables applications to use the multipart API through the Worker.

In this example, each request is routed based on the HTTP method and the action request parameter. As your Worker becomes more complicated, consider utilizing a serverless web framework such as [Hono](https://honojs.dev/) to handle the routing for you.

The following example Worker includes any new information about the state of the multipart upload in the response to each request. For the request which creates the multipart upload, the `uploadId` is returned. For requests uploading a part, the part number and etag are returned. In turn, the client keeps track of this state, and includes the `uploadId` in subsequent requests, and the etag and part number of each part when completing a multipart upload.
```

Author: Applied this

        headers.set("etag", object.httpEtag);
        return new Response(object.body, { headers });
      case "DELETE":
        switch (action) {
          case "mpu-abort": {
            const uploadId = url.searchParams.get("uploadId");
            if (uploadId === null) {
              return new Response("Missing uploadId", { status: 400 });
            }
            const multipartUpload = env.MY_BUCKET.resumeMultipartUpload(
              key,
              uploadId
            );

            try {
              multipartUpload.abort();
            } catch (error: any) {
              return new Response(error.message, { status: 400 });
            }
            return new Response(null, { status: 204 });
          }
          case "delete": {
            await env.MY_BUCKET.delete(key);
            return new Response(null, { status: 204 });
          }
          default:
            return new Response(`Unknown action ${action} for DELETE`, {
              status: 400,
            });
        }
      default:
        return new Response("Method Not Allowed", {
          status: 405,
          headers: { Allow: "PUT, POST, GET, DELETE" },
        });
    }
  },
};
```

> ## Using the worker to perform a multipart upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Perform a multipart upload using a Worker
```

Author: Changed this to `Perform a multipart upload using the Worker` to indicate that this only works with the very specific worker described in the earlier example.

> This example application uploads a file to the worker in multiple parts.
> It uses Python's built in ThreadPoolExecutor to parralelize the uploading of parts to the worker,
> thereby greatly increasing upload speeds.
> Http requests to the worker are made with the [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/) library.
> 
> Using the multipart API in this manner also allows you to upload files larger than the
> [workers request body size limit](/workers/platform/limits#request-limits) through a worker.
> The uploading of individual parts is still subject to this limit.
> 
> You can pass the file you want to upload as an argument when running this script: `python3 mpuscript.py myfile`.
> That will upload the file `myfile` from your machine to your bucket through the worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example application uploads a file to the Worker in multiple parts. It uses Python's built-in `ThreadPoolExecutor` to parallelize the uploading of parts to the Worker, which increases upload speeds. HTTP requests to the Worker are made with the [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/) library.

Utilizing the multipart API in this way also allows you to use the Worker to upload files larger than the [Workers request body size limit](/workers/platform/limits#request-limits). The uploading of individual parts is still subject to this limit.

Pass the file you want to upload as an argument when running this script: `python3 mpuscript.py myfile`. That will upload the file `myfile` from your machine to your bucket through the Worker.
```

    # get the parts from the futures
    uploaded_parts = [future.result() for future in futures]

    # complete the multipart upload
    response = requests.post(
        url,
        params={"action": "mpu-complete", "uploadId": uploadId},
        json={"parts": uploaded_parts},
    )
    if response.status_code == 200:
        print("🎉 successfully completed multipart upload")
    else:
        print(response.text)

def upload_part(filename, partsize, url, uploadId, index):
    # Open the file in rb mode, which treats it as raw bytes rather than attempting to parse utf-8
    with open(filename, "rb") as file:
        file.seek(partsize * index)
        part = file.read(partsize)

    # Retry policy for when uploading a part fails
    s = requests.Session()
    retries = Retry(total=3, status_forcelist=[400, 500, 502, 503, 504])
    s.mount("https://", HTTPAdapter(max_retries=retries))

    return s.put(
        url,
        params={
            "action": "mpu-uploadpart",
            "uploadId": uploadId,
            "partNumber": str(index + 1),
        },
        data=part,
    ).json()

upload_file(worker_endpoint, filename, partsize)
```

> ## A note on state management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## State management
```

> The stateful nature of multipart uploads doesn't easily map to the usage model of Workers, which are inherently stateless.
> In a normal multipart upload, the multipart upload is usually performed in one continuous execution of the client application. This is in contrast with multipart uploads in a worker, which will often be completed over multiple invocations of that worker, thereby making state management more challenging.
> In order to overcome this, the state associated with a multipart upload, namely the uploadId and which parts have been uploaded, needs to be kept track of somewhere outside of the worker.
> 
> In this example, the state of the multipart upload is tracked in the client application which sends requests to the worker, with the necessary state contained in each request.
> Keeping track of the multipart state in the client application enables maximal flexibility and allows for parralel and unordered uploads of each part.
> 
> When keeping track of this state in the client is impossible, alternative designs can be considered. For example, you could track the uploadId and which parts have been uploaded in a durable object, or other database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The stateful nature of multipart uploads does not easily map to the usage model of Workers, which are inherently stateless. In a normal multipart upload, the multipart upload is usually performed in one continuous execution of the client application. This is different from multipart uploads in a Worker, which will often be completed over multiple invocations of that Worker. This makes state management more challenging. 

To overcome this, the state associated with a multipart upload, namely the `uploadId` and which parts have been uploaded, needs to be kept track of somewhere outside of the Worker.

In this example, the state of the multipart upload is tracked in the client application which sends requests to the Worker, with the necessary state contained in each request. Keeping track of the multipart state in the client application enables maximal flexibility and allows for parallel and unordered uploads of each part.

When keeping track of this state in the client is impossible, alternative designs can be considered. For example, you could track the `uploadId` and which parts have been uploaded in a Durable Object or other database.
```

Reviewer: "In this example, the state of the multipart ..." 

Which example?

Author: Clarified that I meant the example worker & application in the guide.
